# a-Generative-Adversarial-Network-to-explore-Cost-of-Living-hotspots-in-Ireland
*currently in development, files uploaded afre work completed so far*

The cost of living crisis in Ireland has been a major issue in recent years. The consequences include increases in house prices, rental prices, fuel costs, health care costs and daily essentials such as food and electricity. The cost of living in Ireland has had a significant impact on its residents and has placed enormous financial pressure on individuals and families.

During the lockdown I started learning about Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). AI refers to the development of computer systems that can perform tasks that normally require human intelligence, such as understanding natural language, recognizing patterns and making decisions. GANs are a type of machine learning model consisting of two components, a generator and a discriminator, which compete in a training process. The generator creates synthetic data, and the discriminator evaluates whether it is real or fake. Over time, GANs offer the advantage of generating highly realistic and diverse data, making them valuable for tasks such as image synthesis, data augmentation, and anomaly detection.

My GAN Project will involve creating a simulation and analysis of the cost of living in Ireland. It creates artificial cost of living data based on various factors. The goal is to develop a GAN that helps individuals, families and government departments visualize the relationships between the integrated factors that affect the cost of living, making it easier for them to manage their finances and make informed decisions. My project can help people find affordable housing and help government policy making. It empowers individuals to budget, and helps governments allocate support and plan for housing and transport, promoting well-being and economic growth. It is beneficial to use a heatmap to display the data as it is valuable here to show geographic cost of living variations, which helps to quickly identify high and low cost areas.

In July 2023, I started my project with a basic GAN, generating synthetic data based on limited information about factors that influence the cost of living. As progress was made, I improved data visualization using heatmaps and scatterplots. Currently, my project works with a small dataset. I plan to train it on a larger and more comprehensive data set and on different factors that affect the cost of living such as housing or food prices. This will enable the model to better analyze cost of living factors in Ireland and produce a more insightful visualization.
